---
:title: 지난 35년간 출판의 월드프린트의 역활.
:subtitle: 
:author:
:quote:

---

## 35년전 월드프틴트에는 대 변혁이 일어났다.

Social Media Marketing and Impact of COVID-19 in Nepal

Abstract
The COVID-19 pandemic has considerably distorted the social and cultural life of people on a global scale. It has a profound impact on the dynamics of human mobility, daily life, economy, marketing, and social media user became more active. Developing countries like in Nepal social media marketing is increasing day by day, social media makes is easier and convenient way to get things consumer in pandemic. The studies focusing on the ﬁrm’s perspective centered not only on the usage of social media, but also on the impact of pandemic. The majority of articles are secondary data published in recent years. This article describes the impacts of COVID-19 on social marketing in Nepal.
Keywords
 Social media, marketing, Covid-19 impact, Nepal
Introduction
COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2, was first reported in Wuhan, China and is now a pandemic affecting over 218 countries and territories around the world. Nepal has been severely affected by it, with an increasing number of confirmed cases and casualties in recent days. The COVID-19 epidemic has had an effect on every aspect of society and the human population. People living in poverty, the elderly, people with disabilities, children, women, and indigenous peoples are all members of social groups that are particularly vulnerable. Early evidence suggests that vulnerable people, such as homeless people, people without access to running water, refugees, migrants, jobless people, and displaced people, are bearing the virus's health and economic effects inexplicably. These citizens have been disproportionately affected by the pandemic and its aftermath, whether as a result of reduced mobility, fewer job prospects, or that health-care costs. (UN,2020) The majority of developed and developing country leaders have struggled to contain the pandemic's effects. To prevent a panic that could be particularly detrimental to democracy and social ideals, politicians or leaders must appear in command of the situation.
As a landlocked nation in South Asia, Nepal's main trading partners are India and China. The Government of Nepal closed the Rasuwagadhi border on 28 January as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Nepal, effectively halting Nepal-China trade (My republica, 2020a). This closure reduced the supply of raw materials from China, which were previously used in the manufacturing of products. Nepal closed its open borders with India on March 22, causing serious disruptions in the import and export of products (The Economic Times, 2020). This resulted in panic buying and stockpiling of goods by Nepalese citizens, resulting in a shortage of goods and supplies. Thousands of Nepalese seeking to return home were stranded at Indian border crossings (Al Jazeera, 2020). Travel restrictions to and from various foreign destinations were implemented as a precautionary The international flight ban resulted in the stranding of thousands of Nepalese in various parts of the world as a result of the countrywide lockdown on March 24. A significant number of Nepalese labor migrants and students were unable to return to their destinations outside of Nepal, causing widespread chaos sure to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus, which wreaked havoc on the tourism industry.
The World Health Organization (WHO) encouraged people to wash their hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer, and to use facial masks properly to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, which sparked panic-buying and hoarding of these products, resulting in shortages in the majority of Nepalese cities (The Kathmandu Post, 2020a; World Health Organization, 2020a).
 	The constant drumbeat of positive tests and confirmed deaths in other countries as a result of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has sparked widespread concern in Nepal. Due to the outbreak of this virus, Nepalese are experiencing the most sudden and widespread cessation of economic activity. According to the Asian Development Bank, the outbreak of this deadly disease will affect almost every sector of the Nepalese economy, slashing 0.13 percent of the country's GDP and displacing up to 15,880 people.
Literature Review
Lockdown curfews, self-isolation, social distancing, and quarantine have all had an effect on the Nepalese people's overall physical, emotional, moral, and social well-being. With the start of the lockdown, the government agreed to close all movie theaters, gyms, fitness clubs, and museums, as well as prohibiting citizens from meeting for cultural, social, or religious events, such as temples, monasteries, churches and mosques. (Poudel and Subedi 2020)
Social media marketing refers to using social media platforms to connect with your audience, build a brand, increase sales, and increase website traffic. This involves posting great content on your social media profiles, listening to and engaging your followers, analyzing your results, and running ads on social media.  (currently) the main social media platforms are Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, Pinterest, YouTube and Snapchat.  also has a number of social media management tools that can help businesses get the maximum benefit from the aforementioned social media platforms.
Social media marketing puts consumer back to the center of the business world and provides marketers a new set of tools to interact with consumers and to integrate them into the brands through innovative ways. It is the contemporary style of marketing as it concentrates on opening new horizons for marketers in order to promote a product or service as compared to conventional media (a (Prasath and Yelgamathem  2018)
These days, almost all businesses use social media to advertise and promote their goods and services, to make online purchases, to communicate with existing buyers and sellers, to provide brand support, to contact businesses, and so on. Furthermore, with the availability of new digital phones, users, customers, and consumers can communicate with one another much more easily and quickly. They often use social media to share their thoughts, emotions, and attitudes about the use of products and services. Furthermore, social media allows customers to compare price, quality, and availability. (Rafiq and Javeid 2014)
Companies all over the world are continually looking for new ways to attract customers in the form of marketing. They've realized the value of social media networking, and they're using it to improve their marketing campaigns by leveraging customer input from social media. Nowadays, social media has a major impact on people's perceptions, opinions, and attitudes. To better understand the effect of social media on consumer purchasing decisions, consider the following research. Features, services, and accessibility of goods and services provided by similar businesses.
Abdel Qurder (2015) discovered the impact of social media on internet-based customers' purchasing decisions. The analysis enlisted the participation of 524 Al-Quasim University students. To obtain the findings, descriptive and analytical methods were used, as well as attempts to establish the relationship between variables under the research analysis. The sharing of knowledge, ratings, and social connectivity were discovered to have a significant impact on buying decisions to consumer.

Impact on tourism
Tourism, trade and development linkages, supply, and health are just a few of the industries that have already felt the effects. The entire service industries, especially tourism, aviation, and hospitality, have been severely impacted by the outbreak. The country hoped to draw two million tourists with the launch of the Visit Nepal 2020 campaign in January, but the campaign was canceled, but due to the corona pandemic, the campaign was canceled, causing havoc in the hospitality and tourism industries. As a result, the tourist arrival rate has dropped below 10%, down from 70% before the Covid-19 outbreak. The tourism industry, which is one of Nepal's highest, contributes 8% of the country's GDP. Similarly, the cancellation of all spring mountaineering expeditions, including Everest ascents, has resulted in the loss of approximately 13,000 tour, trekking, and mountain guides' jobs. People's lives, as well as the private and public sectors, have been impacted by the outbreak. Thanks to the coronavirus tourist recession, banks are losing money on investments in hospitality and aviation. Not only that, but the effect has been felt in the manufacturing sector as well. Since China supplies the majority of raw materials, including pharmaceutical chemicals, supply has decreased dramatically.
Impact on Economy
Foreign jobs has not only helped to alleviate Nepal's unemployment problems, but it has also contributed significantly to the country's economy through remittances. In 2019, the money sent back by labor migrants added 26% to the country's GDP. The increased rate of the virus has had an effect on remittance inflow and government revenue collection, as most of the popular destinations for outbound workers have declared a lockdown, and imports have begun to decline as of late. The effect of the coronavirus on remittances is currently catastrophic. After agriculture, the wholesale and retail market is the economy's second largest contributor. The sector contributes 14.37 percent to the economy, which is already suffering from a sharp drop in imports from China as a result of the disease's outbreak. Although this is the current situation, there is a high possibility of general inflation in the future. . Due to a lack of supply from China, Nepal may be forced to import from third countries, increasing the price of the goods.
 	The condition is extremely concerning. While we have yet to fully witness the coronavirus's effects and consequences, this global threat has already caused economic uncertainty for all of us. People are concerned because we really don't know anything about this deadly virus or how widespread and severe the economic consequences would be.
  Since Nepal relies heavily on China and India for protective gear such as face masks, gloves, and caps, the export ban has resulted in a severe shortage of supplies and deliveries, causing mental stress among health-care personnel, hygienic staff, and the general public. Some hospitals began sewing masks out of plain cloth to cope with the crisis, but the lack of adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) persists (The Kathmandu Post, 2020b).
Impact on agriculture 
COVID-19 has a significant effect on agricultural crops, livestock, and fisheries. Since Nepal is an agricultural country, the travel ban and lockdown have had an impact on every stage of the food supply chain, including food production and distribution. After a large decline in supply and the closure of manufacturing firms, farmers are forced to dump milk and vegetables. (Poudel et al., 2020). This has resulted in a price increase, black marketing, and a commodity shortage in local markets. While the government encourages people to practice quarantining and reduce crowding, millions of farmers in Nepal must come together to sow food and cash crops as the monsoon approaches.
 	The current lockdown measures will aid the government in combating the virus, but if small-scale planting, harvesting, and distribution patterns continue to be disrupted, hundreds of thousands of people will lose their jobs, and the country as a whole will face severe food insecurity. As a result, the government should enact legislation to combat the pandemic without disrupting the food supply chain or jeopardizing citizens' food protection. As a result, the government should enact legislation to combat the pandemic without disrupting the food supply chain or jeopardizing citizens' food protection.
The government of Nepal's decision to close all educational institutions, postpone all national level exams, and ban gatherings of more than 25 people led to a mass exodus of over 300,000 people from Kathmandu in just three days (Rising Nepal Daily, 2020). Perceiving the village air as clean, free of germs and contamination, and unlikely to be infected with the coronavirus may be beneficial. The sharp rise in new infection rates, fewer studies, increased media coverage, and death tolls have all heightened public concern. The public's fear has grown as a result of a lack of consistent communications and a demand for truth, prompting them to seek information from less trustworthy sources (Rubin & Wessely, 2020). Multiple limitations on research have been enforced as a result of the current pandemic, including the closure of laboratories and scientists and researchers working from home, restricting study recruitment.
Social media impact to costumer
Nowadays social media has been playing a dominant role in marketing communication process. With the advancement of information technology, print and electronic media has been moving to social media. Social media marketing is a completely new way of communication with the consumer. The user of traditional print and electronic way of marketing has been pursuing an alternative social life style. The printed and persuasive mass communication has been shifting day by day to social media networking. The main reason of this dramatic change is invention and massive use of World Wide Web. The user of www can be a message writer and can also disseminate his/her content across the globe virtually without any investment.
Social media marketing starts with publishing. Companies share their content on social media to attract traffic to their website and hope to get sales. But social media has gone far beyond just being a place for streaming media content.

Social Media Impact on Marketing
The first social media website was called Six Degrees in 1997, allowing users to create profiles to keep in touch with friends. Since starting blogging, social media has been widely used throughout the internet. In addition to, newspapers, radio, TV, and other traditional media have been dominating our homes for almost a century. But in Nepal, the need for social media marketing is growing more than ever. Social media marketing in Nepal has grown rapidly over the past decade. It's all about sharing information through internet media using social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube. 
 Nepal Social Media Marketing has become an effective and inexpensive way to promote your business products and posts with many successful leads generating transformations. Today's digital marketing agency has a different social media management team. With easy access to the smartphone, everyone from kids to adults is connected to social media. The use of social media does not seem to end until the world exists with many advantages.
Nepal's Current Social Media Marketing Situation 
Social Media Marketing is an endless source of free online marketing available to all individuals around the world. According to a recent survey of Nepalese social media facts, Facebook is a leading market with a total of 9,857,000 users, accounting for 32.6% of the total population. 
Digital Marketing Agency focuses on social media elements as it has the most potential customers in Nepal. Marketing your business using social media is a rewarding bonus for your business. An online business company that generally sells products such as clothing, gadgets and accessories. It relies on social media like Facebook and Instagram.
More and more people interact with online advertising 
As more people spend more time on social media and mobile devices during the pandemic, they also interact more and more with online advertising. A report indicated that during the crisis, the number of mobile Internet users interacting with online advertising increased by 15%. 4,444 According to another report, the number of impressions on social networks increased by 20% year-on-year, which means that more users of social networks see more ads. The report added that this is also the result of increased advertising in story and video formats. 

More and more people turn to influencers on social networks 
In addition to the increase in the use of social networks and advertising participation, due to the epidemic, the number of influential users of the Internet and mobile devices that turn to social networks And its content has also increased. 
 Due to physical limitations, social media users naturally tend to seek interpersonal relationships. One of the beneficiaries of this lawsuit is influencer content. A survey by Global Web Index found that in the United States and the United Kingdom, more than 80% of consumers said they consumed more content during COVID-19 More and more people are shopping online. Not only that, due to epidemics and social evacuation rules, more and more people are shopping and shopping online. The current crisis has forced many people to shop online for the safety and convenience of their homes to avoid queuing and being overcrowded. 
In turn, this led to the expansion of e-commerce with new customers and different types of products. According to a report, online sales rose 15.1% and consumer spending hit a record $ 10.8 billion on Cyber Monday in 2020 alone, breaking the previous record for online shopping.

Take advantage of social media marketing 
 As more people spend more time on social media during the pandemic, they have become ideals Visit places where you can advertise and promote your ideas, products or services. Social media platforms and tools are also the best when it comes to increasing the company’s brand awareness, attracting inbound traffic, increasing customer satisfaction and increasing conversion rates. 

Utilize mobile advertising and sponsored content advertising 
With the increase in global mobile Internet usage and advertising participation, now is the right time to use mobile advertising and sponsored posts. The best way to create more clickable mobile ads is to write compelling copy of your content, use eye-catching visuals and images to make your ads interactive and more engaging, and test various layouts. 
 Another way to create eye-catching online ads is to use sponsored content ads, which are displayed in news sources on both desktop and mobile devices. You can use this type of online advertising to show your content to a wider audience and show your expertise with the brand. To increase ad engagement, for example on Facebook, focus on the quality of the posts, make the ads relevant to the audience, make sure they meet their needs, and add calls to action so they know exactly what you want to do. 
 The growth of social media can match, or even match, the Internet itself. Facebook's influence expanded to more than 2 billion in 2019, which means that 1 in 4 people on the planet have a Facebook account. In Nepal alone, Facebook coverage reached 9.8 million, which means that 1 in 3 Nepalese has a Facebook account. It's Facebook with the emergence of emerging social networks like Instagram, LinkedIn and Pinterest, the number of platforms is also growing. Social media marketing has the potential to bring rewards to your business, create loyal brand advocates, and even generate leads and leads. social media marketing is the process of attracting traffic or following your business through social media sites. Social media marketing involves some activities, such as posting updates, images, videos and a variety of different content to increase audience participation. For people who need faster engagement and a larger target audience, social media marketing also provides paid social media advertising. 
 It is one of the most powerful tools for companies to attract current and potential customers. In addition, it simplifies problems that traditional platforms (such as traditional print ads and TV ads) cannot solve quickly. The community is increasingly dependent on social media. Today, an average Internet user has more than 7 social media accounts, and about 73% of user’s log in to these accounts every day. social media marketing in Nepal and even the world is an unstoppable marketing opportunity. If we have not used social media marketing, we must learn now or our will lose our way in the long run.

Methods
Secondary data, articles related to social media effects on Nepal due to COVID-19 and were searched and reviewed. I have collected data from different medium like daily/weekly newspaper, article, books and published articles.
 Today, companies use marketing policy social networks in different ways. For example, a company that cares about people's reviews of brands will monitor social media conversations and responses to related mentions (listen to and participate in social media). Businesses that want to understand their performance on social media can use analytical tools (social media analytics) to analyze their social media coverage, engagement, and sales. Businesses that want to attract targeted audiences on a large scale can place targeted social media ads (social media ads).


Social media is the terms given to the internet or mobile-based channels which allows user to share opinions which encourage them for participation and engagement (SmartInsights, 2020). Social media marketing is done to meet the marketing objective of the company like protecting and expanding the brand. Social media marketing helps in monitoring and facilitating customers by giving them a direct chance of interaction, participation and sharing their ideas and views.
 
In Nepal, Facebook is the most used platform. It connects people around the world, with 2.72million yearly active users. It is a simple platform for chatting, sharing media, creating groups, and making new friends.

 
 Interestingly, there are more than 8 million Nepalis having Facebook accounts The second most popular social media app is IMO, used by 35 percent respondents, followed by YouTube with 34 percent users. Facebook is rapidly becoming the preferred source of news and information about local, national and international events for Nepalis. According to the survey, 5 percent of the participants use Facebook to learn about local events, 9 percent depend on the popular app for national and international news. However, the study reveals that user-generated content seems to be lower in Nepal compared to other countries, implying most respondents only consume information rather than share self-generated content. Almost three-quarters of the participants said that they never post about local issues on social media. Comparatively, only 1 percent of them shared local happenings on their walls. Instagram has a lower usage among Nepalese, depicting a 4.2 user percentage. While Twitter is almost absent with 1.2 user percentage.
 People spend time online and regularly use social media 
 As people start to spend more time at home due to the pandemic, they also start to use the Internet more, which leads to an unexpected increase in social network participation. 4,444 According to reports, since the outbreak, 46% to 51% of American adults have started to use social media more. During the crisis, the average time they spent on the mobile Internet increased by one hour a day. 
 So far, according to reports, by 2020, it is estimated that there will be at least 3.23 billion people per month, using social media to use the Internet at least once a month, accounting for 80% of the global Internet population. Used by users, followed by Instagram and TikTok. 
 


Conclusion
Mainly the impact of blockades, curfew self-isolation, social distancing, and the epidemic outbreak in quarantine have affected the overall physical, mental, spiritual, cultural, economic and social well-being of Nepalese people. Pandemic Survivors of human life A major problem has arisen in the role of government in people's lifestyle patterns, internal and external connections or movements, medical facilities and pandemics.
 Today, most people have begun to use types of social media for various purposes, from entertainment and social networking to consumer-oriented business models. There are a large number of social media platforms that can provide services to a large number of users. People all over the world communicate and interact in a cheaper, faster and easier way (Rafiq et al. 20). As a result, most people are increasingly using social media to connect with each other. The increase in the number of users has encouraged an increasing number of 4,444 manufacturers, marketers and sellers to effectively use social media to promote their 4,444 products and encourage customers to purchase their products, services and ideas, thereby increasing brand awareness. loyalty, trust, and ultimately improved profitability. The rapid rise of online wholesale sellers and e-commerce sites such as bhatbhateni, sazstodeal, Daraz.com and other social media-based retailers on Facebook proves this.
Hence, social media marketing could be life-changing opportunity if a running a business. So, get involved and create social media accounts on every possible platform mentioned above. It is really essential to take advantage of technology that could change business, i.e. social media marketing.

References: 
Abdel Q. (2015). “The role of social networks in influencing the purchasing decision of                                                                                   the consumer via the internet. The Jordanian Journal of Business’’, Vol. 11 
Al Jazeera. (2020). “Hundreds of Nepalese stuck at India border amid COVID-19 lockdown”.  Available at https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/04/hundreds-nepalese-stuck-india-border-covid-19-lockdown-200401031905310.html (accessed on 21 May 2021).
Hansikar. (2021) https://hansikar.com/social-media-marketing-in-nepal/  (accessed on 24 May 2021)
Lone tree Nepal (2020) https://lonetreenepal.com/social-media-marketing-in-nepal/erences: (accessed on 17 May 2021)
My Republica . (2020) Nepal-China Rasuwagadhi border point to be sealed for 15 days from Wednesday”. https://myrepublica.nagariknetwork.com/news/nepal-china-rasuwagadhi-border-point-to-be-closed-for-15-days-from-wednesday/ (accessed on 05 June 2021) 
Poudel., Poudel, Gautam , Phuyal, Tiwari, and  Bashyal (2020). ‘COVID-19 and its global impact on food and agriculture. Journal of Biology and Today’s World, 9(5), 221–225.
Poudel, Subedi, “Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on socioeconomic and mental health aspects in Nepal. International Journal of Social Psychiatry”. 2020:748-755. doi:10.1177/0020764020942247
Rafiq and Javeid (2014). Impact of social media on purchasing decision of consumer, Retrieved from https://www.academia.edu/36585596/  (accessed on  5 June, 2021)
Rising Nepal Daily. (2020) March 20). People leaving Kathmandu on the rise. https://risingnepaldaily.com/mustread/people-leaving-kathmandu-on-the-rise-photo-feature (accessed 20 June, 2021)
Rubin and Wessely (2020). “The psychological effects of quarantining a city’’. British Medical Journal, 368, Article m313. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.m313
The Kathmandu Post. (2020) ”Suspension of climbing permits and on-arrival visas entails losses of thousands of jobs and millions of dollars”. https://kathmandupost.com/money/2020/03/14/suspension-of-climbing-permit s-and-on-arrival-visas-entails-losses-of-thousands-of-jobs-and-millions-of-dollars (accessed on 20 May 2021)
UNFPA Nepal (2020). https://nepal.unfpa.org/sites/default/files/pub-pdf/Nepal%20Population%20Situation%20Analysis.pdf?fbclid=IwAR3rejlzL6XLYumAKtT798262e4vQdt45u8zRfMhgK2eQTG8XH0_FdoMnCIc (accessed on June 1 2021) 
World Bank (2020).  Nepal steps up remote learning during COVID-19. https://blogs.worldbank.org/endpovertyinsouthasia/nepal-steps-remote-learningduring-covid-19 (accessed on  24 May 2021)
World Health Organization. (2020). Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) advice for the public.      https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public (accessed 15 June 2021)







